Change mentions of optional null safety (#4819)
dart-lang/site-www: src/null-safety/index.md

description: Information about Dart's null safety feature
---

The Dart language enforces sound null safety.

Null safety prevents errors that result from unintentional access
of variables set to `null`.

For example, if a method expects an integer but receives `null`,

> your app returns a runtime error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your app causes a runtime error.
```

This type of error, a null dereference error, can be difficult to debug.

With sound null safety, all variables require a value.
This means Dart considers all variables _non-nullable_.
You can assign values of the declared type only, like `int i=42`.
You can never assign a value of `null` to default variable types.

> To specify that a variable type can have no value, add a `?` after

Reviewer 2: We definitely shouldn't describe a variable as having "no value". `null` is most definitely a value. Consider:

```dart
var thing = null;
var stuff = [1, thing, 'three']);
print(stuff.length); // 3.
```

If `null` isn't a value, then what's the second element in this list?

Even before null safety, Dart ensured that all variables had a value. To ensure that, it would default initialize everything to `null`.

What null safety does is prevent you from *doing stuff* (accessing members) on `null` that it doesn't support.

The Dart language comes with sound null safety. 

> In Dart 3, you always get null safety. In Dart 2.x,

Reviewer: This page is a historical document for the introduction of null safety, not documentation of the null-safe type system, consider keeping this, especially since it's just after Dart 3 released.

Reviewer 3: I think the intro part of this page should be brought up into the variables page above.

Author: Done.

of variables set to `null`.

For example, if a method expects an integer but receives `null`,

> your app returns a runtime error.

Reviewer: Errors are not returned.

```suggestion
your app causes a runtime error.
```

This type of error, a null dereference error, can be difficult to debug.

With sound null safety, variables default to 'non-nullable'.

> You can assigned values of the declared type only, like `int i=42`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can assign values of the declared type only, like `int i=42`.
```

> You can never assign the value to `null` to default variable types.

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure what this sentence is trying to say. Perhaps:

```suggestion
You can never assign the value `null` to non-nullable variables.
```

> To specify that a variable type can be nullable, you add a `?` after
> the type label: `int? i`.
> These specific types can contain either a `null` *or*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify that a variable type can be nullable, 
add a `?` after the type label: `int? i`.
These nullable types can contain either `null` *or*
```

a value of the defined type.

Sound null safety changes potential **runtime errors**
into **edit-time** analysis errors.

> Null safety does flagging that a non-null variable has either:

Reviewer: It reads weird to me to say that "null safety does flagging". Perhaps:

```suggestion
With null safety, the Dart analyzer and compilers
flag if a non-nullable variable has either:
```

* Not been initialized with a non-null value
* Been assigned a `null` value.

> This check allows you to fix these errors _before_ deploying your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These checks allows you to fix these errors _before_ deploying your app.
```

## Introduction through examples

With null safety, all variables in the following code can't be `null`:

```dart

> // In Dart 3, none of these can ever be null.

Reviewer: This is a historical document and it also applies to null-safe code before Dart 3.

```suggestion
// With null safety, none of these can ever be null.
```

This means Dart considers all variables _non-nullable_.
You can assign values of the declared type only, like `int i=42`.
You can never assign a value of `null` to default variable types.
To specify that a variable type can have a `null` value, add a `?` after

> the type label: `int? i`.

Reviewer 2: "type label" -> "type" or "type annotation".

(Labels are a different, rarely used feature.)

## Dart 3 and null safety

> Dart 3 code has built-in sound null safety.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dart 3 has built-in sound null safety.
```

## Dart 3 and null safety

> Dart 3 always has sound null safety.

Reviewer 3: The term we've been using in the other PRs is ""Dart 3 has null safety built-in"

The lower bound of "sdk: '>=2.9.0 <3.0.0'" must be 2.12.0 or higher to enable null safety.
```

> Libraries incompatible with Dart 3 return analysis or compilation errors.

Reviewer: This changes the meaning of the sentence. It's clear that libraries incompatible will cause errors, that's what incompatible means. The important part is the mention of the lack of null safety making them incompatible.

```suggestion
Pre-Dart 3 libraries that opt out of null safety will 
cause analysis or compilation errors.
```

of any packages you installed from pub.dev, and [migrate](#migrate) all
of your own source code to use sound null safety.

> **Dart 3** has been released to the Dart and Flutter stable channels.

Reviewer: nit: I'm not sure it makes sense to say "Dart 3" is released to the Flutter stable channel, since it's not released separately from Flutter. Perhaps "available" is still more accurate, at least in terms of Flutter.

Reviewer 3: +1 for "Dart 3 is available in the Dart and Flutter stable channels"

### Dart 3 backwards compatibility

Packages and apps migrated to use null safety with Dart 2.12 or later

> should be backwards compatible with Dart 3.

Reviewer: question: Since the package was migrated with an older version, shouldn't this technically read "forwards compatible"?

```suggestion
should be forwards compatible with Dart 3.
```

> If a any package has a lower bound SDK constraint of 2.12.0 or later,
> `dart pub` resolves that package.

Reviewer: Resolution is a larger process than one individual package, and involves interactions with other packages, so I think the previous text is more accurate. Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
If a package has a lower bound SDK constraint of 2.12.0 or later,
`dart pub` will allow package resolution.
```

> This remains true when the upper bound falls to a version earlier than 3.0.0.

Reviewer: I think "falls" is hard to understand here:

```suggestion
This remains true when the upper bound falls is
set to a version earlier than 3.0.0.
```

For example, a Dart 3.x SDK resolves a package with the following constraint:

```yaml
environment:
  sdk: '>=2.14.0 <3.0.0'
```

> This allows developers to use Dart 3 sound null safety with packages
> that use 2.12 or later null safety without a second migration.

Reviewer: "2.12 or later null safety" doesn't make sense to me. How about the following?

```suggestion
This allows developers to use Dart 3 sound null safety with 
Dart 2 packages that have been migrated to null safety 
without a second migration.
```

> Note: This doesn't apply to code that doesn't depend on Dart 3 breaking changes.

Reviewer: I think it's the other way around. It doesn't apply to code that _does_ depend on breaking changes in Dart 3.

```suggestion
Note: This doesn't apply to code that is affected by
other breaking changes in Dart 3.
```

> ### Dart 3 backwards compatibility

Reviewer 3: This whole section is being removed in https://github.com/dart-lang/site-www/pull/4808/files#diff-74cb202dbd963f8abf2a2a5cee0226b6396b1852141f6fa57422fbd8b89306a0, so to avoid conflicts please leave it as-is.

## Dart 2.x and null safety {#enable-null-safety}

From Dart 2.12 to 2.19, you need to enable null safety.

> To enable null safety, set the `sdk` option to `'>=2.12.0'`
> in the `pubspec.yaml` file.

Reviewer: Remove these sentences, the next few sentences (L166-169) go into greater detail about it already.

```suggestion
```

## Dart 2.x and null safety {#enable-null-safety}

From Dart 2.12 to 2.19, you need to enable null safety.

> To enable null safety, set the `sdk` option to `'>=2.12.0'`
> in the `pubspec.yaml` file.

Reviewer: The next sentences cover this in greater, more accurate detail. Can just remove this.

```suggestion
```

[language version]: /guides/language/evolution#language-versioning

> ## Migrating existing code {#migrate}

Reviewer: Since this is a historical document, I don't think you should remove this section. The page is about migrating, which still exists in this historical context.

Reviewer 3: +1

Author: **comment:** It's not a historical document, but this should point to the migration guide instead of explaining anything here.

> To learn more about null safety, see the following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about null safety, check out the following resources:
```

$ cd my_app
$ dart migrate
```

> To learn how to migrate your code to null safety,

Reviewer: This needs a new-line before it:

```suggestion

To learn how to migrate your code to null safety,
```
